# Language Addition Guide
This is a guide for adding language support for FLAIR. This guide will be written with the Stanford Core NLP in mind. Although the project is abstracted enough to support custom parsers, it will be simplest to use the Stanford Core NLP. 

## Shared
1. Add a case in /com/flair/shared/grammar/Language.java for the language you wish to add. 
2. Add a case in /com/flair/shared/grammar/DefaultVocabularyList.java for the language you wish to add. It is not required to have an actual vocabulary list for the new language, you can just use an empty array list. However, having a vocabulary list will provide an additional criteria for ranking documents. 

## Server 

1. Add a case in /com/flair/server/grammar/BingSearchAgent.java for the language you wish to add. You will also need to add parameters for the search market and the query prefix. [Bing](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/bing-web-search/language-support) provides documentation for the languages they support, including the region and market codes necessary for the search market and query prefix parameters.  
2. In the folder /com/flair/server/parser/ you will need to create a parsing strategy for the new language. This is where you will tag the document with different grammar constructions. The new parsing strategy class will need to extend the BasicStanfordDocumentParserStrategy class.
3. In the file /com/flair/server/parser/BasicStanfordDocumentParserStrategy.java you will need to add a case for your language so you can use your parsing strategy. 
4. The FLAIR server implements an AbstractDocument interface which represents a parsed text document. To add a new language, you have two options. One option is to add a language case in the /com/flair/server/parser/Document.java class. If you wish to have your new language work like our english, german and russian, implementations, this option is recommended. Another option is to create another implementation of the AbstractDocument interface. This option is intended for languages that require an implementation that differs greatly from the current language implementations. Our arabic implementation uses a different ranking scale, so we have a different class for arabic documents. 
5. In the file /com/flair/server/utilities/AbstractTextExtractor.java, add a case for the new language following the example of previous language cases, utilizing the language code for the new language.  
6. In the file /com/flair/server/parser/StanfordDocumentParser.java, add a new language case in the class constructor. You will need to set the appropriate pipeline properties for the new language. The [Stanford Core NLP](https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/index.html) site provides information on implementing a language other than english, including the necessary dependencies and pipeline properties. 
7. In the file /com/flair/server/taskmanager/MasterJobPipeline.java, you will need to add an AbstractParsingStrategyFactory object and a DocumentParserPool object for your new language. In the MasterJobPipeline constructor, set the document pool to null and set the new language parsing strategy to the MasterParsingFactoryGenerator result that corresponds to the new language. In the getStrategyForLanguage() method, add a case for the new language. In the getParserPoolForLanguage() method, add a case for the new language as well. 
8. If you simply added a case to the Document.java object, then there is nothing else to be done on the server. If you used a unique implementation of the AbstractDocument interface, you will need to add a case for your new document if it uses methods unique to that class in the file /com/flair/server/interop/session/SessionState.java. Within this file, inspect the functions generateRankableDocument() and generateRankableWebSearchResult() to add document properties that you will be sending to the client.  

## Client
Adding new language support on the front end is much more open ended than adding new language support on the backend due to the variety of design decisions one can make. Therefore, this section will contain notes about the front end rather than a step by step tutorial. The front end is built on the Google Web Toolkit (GWT) framework. If you are unfamiliar with GWT development, documentation and introductory tutorials can be found [here](http://www.gwtproject.org/). 

### Internationalization and Localization 
FLAIR was developed with internationalization in mind, and in it's current state the front end can be displayed in both german and english. With that in mind, FLAIR makes use of localized resources to quickly switch between languages. The localized string resources can be found in the /com/flair/client/localization/resources/ folder. The application makes use of two resource files per language. One for general strings, and one for strings specific to grammatical constructions. There is a string value that is associated with tags, making these strings accessible interchangeably in the client code. For most widgets on the site, if you wish to add a field, you will first need to add a localized resource associated with the field you would like to add. This will be done in the /com/flair/client/localization/resources/ folder in the strings-lang-general.tsv files. Then you can add your new string as part an element in the ui.xml file corresponding to your widget. This will need to be done for all supported languages. If you are adding unique grammatical constructions, you follow the same general process, except you will be placing your localized resource in the strings-lang-constructions.tsv. The files that correspond with the grammar sliders can be found in the /com/flair/client/presentation/widgets/sliderbundles/ folder. To learn more about GWT internationalization and localization, click [here](http://www.gwtproject.org/doc/latest/DevGuideI18n.html).